[Docs] Add docs for run many jobs (#3847)
skypilot-org/skypilot: docs/source/running-jobs/many-jobs.rst

    git clone https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/ || true
    cd transformers
    pip install .
    cd examples/pytorch/text-classification
    pip install -r requirements.txt torch==1.12.1+cu113 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113

  run: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    cd transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification
    python run_glue.py \
      --model_name_or_path bert-base-cased \
      --dataset_name imdb  \
      --do_train \
      --max_seq_length 128 \
      --per_device_train_batch_size 32 \
      --learning_rate ${LR} \
      --max_steps ${MAX_STEPS} \
      --output_dir /tmp/imdb/ --overwrite_output_dir \
      --fp16

.. raw:: html
    
    </details>

We can now launch a job with different hyperparameters by specifying the envs.

.. code-block:: bash

  sky launch -c dnn dnn-template.yaml \
    --env LR=1e-5 \
    --env MAX_STEPS=100

Or, you can store the envs in a dotenv file and launch the job with the file: ``configs/job1.env``.

.. code-block:: bash

  # configs/job1.env
  LR=1e-5
  MAX_STEPS=100

.. code-block:: bash

  sky launch -c dnn dnn-template.yaml \
    --env-file configs/job1.env

> 2. Track Job Output

Reviewer: "Logging Job Outputs"

Reviewer: (metrics are tracked, outputs are logged/captured)

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> When running many jobs, it is useful to track live outputs of each job. We recommend using WandB to track the outputs of all jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When running many jobs, it is useful to log the outputs of all jobs. You can use tools like W&B  (TODO link) for this purpose:
```

.. raw:: html

    <details>

>     <summary>SkyPilot YAML with WandB: <code>dnn-template.yaml</code></summary>

Reviewer: W&B; "WandB" seems uncommon.

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 7-7,19-19,34-34

  # dnn-template.yaml
  name: huggingface

  envs:
    LR: 2e-5
    MAX_STEPS: 50
    WANDB_API_KEY: # Empty field means this field is required when launching the job.
      
  resources:
    accelerators: V100:4

  setup: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    git clone https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/ || true
    cd transformers
    pip install .
    cd examples/pytorch/text-classification
    pip install -r requirements.txt torch==1.12.1+cu113 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113
    pip install wandb

  run: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    cd transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification
    python run_glue.py \
      --model_name_or_path bert-base-cased \
      --dataset_name imdb  \
      --do_train \
      --max_seq_length 128 \
      --per_device_train_batch_size 32 \
      --learning_rate ${LR} \
      --max_steps ${MAX_STEPS} \
      --output_dir /tmp/imdb/ --overwrite_output_dir \
      --fp16 \
      --report_to wandb

.. raw:: html

    </details>

> We can now launch the job with the following command (``WANDB_API_KEY`` should existing in your local environment variables).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now launch the job with the following command (``WANDB_API_KEY`` should existing in your local environment variables).
```

.. code-block:: bash

  sky launch -c dnn dnn-template.yaml \
    --env-file configs/job1.env \
    --env WANDB_API_KEY

> Scale up the Job

Reviewer: Use "scale out" throughout?

-----------------

> With the above setup, we can now scale up a job to many in-parallel jobs by creating multiple config files and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With the above setup, you can now scale out to run many jobs in parallel by (1) creating multiple config files and (2)
```

submitting them with :ref:`SkyPilot managed jobs <managed-jobs>`.

> We create a config file for each job in the ``configs`` directory.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, create a config file for each job (for example, in a ``configs`` directory):
```

.. code-block:: bash

  # configs/job1.env
  LR=1e-5
  MAX_STEPS=100

  # configs/job2.env
  LR=2e-5
  MAX_STEPS=200

  ...

> We can then submit all jobs by iterating over the config files.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, submit all jobs by iterating over the config files and calling `sky jobs launch` on each:
```

.. code-block:: bash

>   for config_file in configs/*.env; do

Reviewer: One question in mind was "how to write out a config file for each param combo". Is it better to show a representative python program to iterate over params, then either (1) write out the env files, or (2) directly call jobs launch Python API / CLI from within Python script?

Author: Added a python script for generating the configs.

    job_name=$(basename ${config_file%.env})

>     # -y means yes to all prompts.
>     # -d means detach from the job's logging, so the next job can be submitted
>     # without waiting for the previous job to finish.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    # -y: yes to all prompts.
    # -d: detach from the job's logging, so the next job can be submitted
    #      without waiting for the previous job to finish.
```

    sky jobs launch -n dnn-$job_name -y -d dnn-template.yaml \
      --env-file $config_file \
      --env WANDB_API_KEY
  done

> All job statuses can be checked with the following command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Job statuses can be checked via `sky jobs queue`:
```

.. _many-jobs:

Many Parallel Jobs
======================

SkyPilot allows you to easily **run many jobs in parallel** and manage them in a single system. This is useful for hyperparameter tuning sweeps, data processing, and other batch jobs.

This guide shows a typical workflow for running many jobs with SkyPilot.

> .. image:: https://i.imgur.com/x1aFtVn.png

Reviewer: Nice!
- RHS box: 
  - "Job 1 2 3 N" should be right-aligned
  - Local / US / EU / ... should be center aligned maybe?
- SkyPilot logo can move up a little, center align with the arrows

  :width: 90%
  :align: center
.. TODO: Show the components in a GIF.

> Reason for using SkyPilot to run many jobs:
> 
> - **Seamless**: Utilize resources on any of your infrastructure (Kubernetes, cloud VMs, reservations, etc.)
> - **Observable**: See and manage all jobs in a single pane of glass
> - **Elastic**: Scale up and down based on demands
> - **Cost-effective**: Only pay for the cheapest resources
> - **Robust**: Automatically recover jobs from failures

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Why Use SkyPilot to Run Many Jobs
-------------------------------------

- **Unified**: Utilize resources on any of your infrastructure (Kubernetes, cloud VMs, reservations, etc.).
- **Elastic**: Scale up and down based on demands.
- **Cost-effective**: Only pay for the cheapest resources.
- **Robust**: Automatically recover jobs from failures.
- **Observable**: See and manage all jobs in a single pane of glass.
```

.. raw:: html

    <details>
    <summary>Updated SkyPilot YAML: <code>train-template.yaml</code></summary>

.. code-block:: yaml
  :emphasize-lines: 4-6,28-29

  # train-template.yaml
  name: huggingface

  envs:
    LR: 2e-5
    MAX_STEPS: 50
    
  resources:
    accelerators: V100:4

  setup: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    git clone https://github.com/huggingface/transformers/ || true
    cd transformers
    pip install .
    cd examples/pytorch/text-classification
    pip install -r requirements.txt torch==1.12.1+cu113 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113

  run: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    cd transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification
    python run_glue.py \
      --model_name_or_path bert-base-cased \
      --dataset_name imdb  \
      --do_train \
      --max_seq_length 128 \
      --per_device_train_batch_size 32 \
      --learning_rate ${LR} \
      --max_steps ${MAX_STEPS} \
      --output_dir /tmp/imdb/ --overwrite_output_dir \
      --fp16

.. raw:: html
    
    </details>

> You can now use `--env` to launch a job with different hyperparameters:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use ``--env`` to launch a job with different hyperparameters:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  sky launch -c train train-template.yaml \
    --env LR=1e-5 \
    --env MAX_STEPS=100

> Alternative, store the environment variable values in a dotenv file and use `--env-file` to launch:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Alternative, store the environment variable values in a dotenv file and use ``--env-file`` to launch:
```

    pip install -r requirements.txt torch==1.12.1+cu113 --extra-index-url https://download.pytorch.org/whl/cu113
    pip install wandb

  run: |
    set -e  # Exit if any command failed.
    cd transformers/examples/pytorch/text-classification
    python run_glue.py \
      --model_name_or_path bert-base-cased \
      --dataset_name imdb  \
      --do_train \
      --max_seq_length 128 \
      --per_device_train_batch_size 32 \
      --learning_rate ${LR} \
      --max_steps ${MAX_STEPS} \
      --output_dir /tmp/imdb/ --overwrite_output_dir \
      --fp16 \
      --report_to wandb

.. raw:: html

    </details>

You can now launch the job with the following command (``WANDB_API_KEY`` should existing in your local environment variables).

.. code-block:: bash

  sky launch -c train train-template.yaml \
    --env-file configs/job1 \
    --env WANDB_API_KEY

Scale Out to Many Jobs
-----------------------

With the above setup, you can now scale out to run many jobs in parallel. You
can either use SkyPilot CLI with many config files or use SkyPilot Python API.

With Config Files
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can run many jobs in parallel by (1) creating multiple config files and (2)

> submitting them with :ref:`SkyPilot managed jobs <managed-jobs>`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
submitting them as :ref:`SkyPilot managed jobs <managed-jobs>`.
```

First, create a config file for each job (for example, in a ``configs`` directory):

.. code-block:: bash

  # configs/job1
  LR=1e-5
  MAX_STEPS=100

  # configs/job2
  LR=2e-5
  MAX_STEPS=200

  ...

.. raw:: html

  <details>
  <summary>An example Python script to generate config files</summary>

.. code-block:: python

  import os

  CONFIG_PATH = 'configs'
  LR_CANDIDATES = [0.01, 0.03, 0.1, 0.3, 1.0]
  MAX_STEPS_CANDIDATES = [100, 300, 1000]

  os.makedirs(CONFIG_PATH, exist_ok=True)

  job_idx = 1
  for lr in LR_CANDIDATES:
    for max_steps in MAX_STEPS_CANDIDATES:
      config_file = f"{CONFIG_PATH}/job{job_idx}"

>       with open(config_file, "w") as f:

Reviewer: quotes

        print(f'LR={lr}', file=f)
        print(f'MAX_STEPS={max_steps}', file=f)
      job_idx += 1

.. raw:: html

  </details>

> Then, submit all jobs by iterating over the config files and calling `sky jobs launch` on each:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Then, submit all jobs by iterating over the config files and calling ``sky jobs launch`` on each:
```

.. code-block:: bash

  for config_file in configs/*; do
    job_name=$(basename $config_file)
    # -y: yes to all prompts.
    # -d: detach from the job's logging, so the next job can be submitted
    #      without waiting for the previous job to finish.
    sky jobs launch -n train-$job_name -y -d train-template.yaml \
      --env-file $config_file \
      --env WANDB_API_KEY
  done

> Job statuses can be checked via `sky jobs queue`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Job statuses can be checked via ``sky jobs queue``:
```

.. code-block:: console

  $ sky jobs queue

  Fetching managed job statuses...
  Managed jobs
  In progress tasks: 10 RUNNING
  ID  TASK  NAME        RESOURCES  SUBMITTED    TOT. DURATION  JOB DURATION  #RECOVERIES  STATUS   
  10  -     train-job10 1x[V100:4] 5 mins ago   5m 5s          1m 12s        0            RUNNING
  9   -     train-job9  1x[V100:4] 6 mins ago   6m 11s         2m 23s        0            RUNNING
  8   -     train-job8  1x[V100:4] 7 mins ago   7m 15s         3m 31s        0            RUNNING
  ...

With Python API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> To have more customized control over the jobs, you can also use SkyPilot Python
> API to launch the jobs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To have more customized control over generation of job variants, you can also use SkyPilot Python API to launch the jobs.
```

.. _many-jobs:

Many Parallel Jobs
======================

SkyPilot allows you to easily **run many jobs in parallel** and manage them in a single system. This is useful for hyperparameter tuning sweeps, data processing, and other batch jobs.

This guide shows a typical workflow for running many jobs with SkyPilot.

.. image:: https://i.imgur.com/tvxeNyR.png
  :width: 90%
  :align: center
.. TODO: Show the components in a GIF.

Why Use SkyPilot to Run Many Jobs
-------------------------------------

> - **Unified**: Utilize resources on any of your infrastructure (Kubernetes, cloud VMs, reservations, etc.).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Unified**: Use any or multiple of your own infrastructure (Kubernetes, cloud VMs, reservations, etc.).
```

- **Elastic**: Scale up and down based on demands.
- **Cost-effective**: Only pay for the cheapest resources.
- **Robust**: Automatically recover jobs from failures.

> - **Observable**: See and manage all jobs in a single pane of glass.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Observable**: Monitor and manage all jobs in a single pane of glass.
```
